README.md, before:

# ImageDataSetTagEditor

A small desktop application to manage image tag captions for image training, written in C#
and [AvaloniaUI](https://avaloniaui.net/).
This project is heavily inspired by [BooryDatasetTagManager](https://github.com/starik222/BooruDatasetTagManager) and
has many of its features, including auto-complete of already used tags.

Can manage a dataset in subdirectories, where each caption is split into tags or just comma separated values.
These captions are put into a text file next to the image, named the same way. So image `0000.jpg` has a caption
file `0000.txt` with something like `person, woman, sitting on a chair`.

## Key bindings and other features

As I often accelerate my work with key bindings, I've added some here as well:

- Ctrl + Down: Select next image
- Ctrl + Up: Select previous image
- Ctrl + F: Enter image search box
- Ctrl + Shift + F: Enter tag search box
- Ctrl + Add(+): Add tag to current selected image
- Ctrl + Subtract(-): Delete current selected tag on current selected image
- Up & Down: Select the next or previous tag of the current image. Also includes auto-complete suggestions if they're shown.

Clicking on the tag list on the right also cycles through the images that have the clicked tag.

## Local development setup

Clone the repo and open the solution, just make sure you have .NET 7 installed and the IDE extension needed to develop Avalonia.

Commit message:

Added running section to README.md

README.md, after:

# ImageDataSetTagEditor

A small desktop application to manage image tag captions for image training, written in C#
and [AvaloniaUI](https://avaloniaui.net/).
This project is heavily inspired by [BooryDatasetTagManager](https://github.com/starik222/BooruDatasetTagManager) and
has many of its features, including auto-complete of already used tags.

Can manage a dataset in subdirectories, where each caption is split into tags or just comma separated values.
These captions are put into a text file next to the image, named the same way. So image `0000.jpg` has a caption
file `0000.txt` with something like `person, woman, sitting on a chair`.


## Running

Just head over to the [releases page](https://github.com/TheAnachronism/ImageDataSetTagEditor/releases), grab the latest one and download the executable you need.
Everything of the application is contained in one file, so nothing else is required.
When opening, a console window will appear in the background. That is currently because of .NET and Avalonia, and I haven't figured out yet, how to get it away -.-

## Key bindings and other features

As I often accelerate my work with key bindings, I've added some here as well:

- Ctrl + Down: Select next image
- Ctrl + Up: Select previous image
- Ctrl + F: Enter image search box
- Ctrl + Shift + F: Enter tag search box
- Ctrl + Add(+): Add tag to current selected image
- Ctrl + Subtract(-): Delete current selected tag on current selected image
- Up & Down: Select the next or previous tag of the current image. Also includes auto-complete suggestions if they're shown.

Clicking on the tag list on the right also cycles through the images that have the clicked tag.

## Local development setup

Clone the repo and open the solution, just make sure you have .NET 7 installed and the IDE extension needed to develop Avalonia.
